README.md, before:

# calaos-rs
Calaos server

MQTT + Home Assistant
- Publishes Home Assistant MQTT Discovery for inputs (binary_sensors), and outputs (switches and covers) under the `homeassistant` prefix.
- Topics:
  - State: `calaos/state/<id>` (not retained)
  - Command: `calaos/set/<id>`
  - Availability (shared): `calaos/availability` (`online`/`offline`, retained)
  - Availability (per-entity): `calaos/availability/<id>` (`online`/`offline`, retained)
  - HA status: subscribes to `homeassistant/status` and re-publishes discovery on `online`
- Payloads:
  - Switch: `ON`/`OFF`
  - Cover command: `OPEN`/`CLOSE`/`STOP`
  - Cover state: `open`/`opening`/`closed`/`closing`

Notes
- Inputs are exposed as binary_sensors; they reflect the raw input (pressed/not pressed) state.
- MQTT settings default to host `localhost:1883`, username/password empty, discovery prefix `homeassistant`, node id `calaos`.
- Environment overrides:
  - `MQTT_HOST`, `MQTT_PORT`, `MQTT_USERNAME`, `MQTT_PASSWORD`
  - `MQTT_DISCOVERY_PREFIX`, `MQTT_NODE_ID`, `MQTT_KEEP_ALIVE_SEC`

Commit message:

Docs: add short README with TLS directory behavior and run instructions

README.md, after:

# Calaos RS

A Rust workspace with two crates:
- `core/` (library): protocol parsing, IO controllers, rules engine, MQTT client, websocket server.
- `server/` (binary): wires configs, channels, MQTT, IO controllers, and servers.

## Build & Test
- Build: `cargo build`
- Test: `cargo test`

## Run
```
cargo run -p server -- <io_config.xml> <rules_config.xml> [--ssl_config_dir <dir>] [--no_input] [--no_output]
```

Environment overrides (MQTT): `MQTT_HOST`, `MQTT_PORT`, `MQTT_USERNAME`, `MQTT_PASSWORD`, `MQTT_DISCOVERY_PREFIX`, `MQTT_NODE_ID`, `MQTT_KEEP_ALIVE_SEC`.
Optional shutdown grace: `SHUTDOWN_GRACE_MS` (default 1000 ms).

## Websocket TLS
Pass `--ssl_config_dir <dir>` to enable TLS for the websocket server.
- Certificates: looks for `fullchain.pem`, then `cert.pem`, otherwise the first `*.pem` in the directory that yields any certs.
- Private key: looks for `privkey.pem`, then `key.pem`, otherwise the first `*.pem` containing a private key.
- Key formats: prefers PKCS#8, falls back to RSA (both PEM).
- You may also pass a direct path to a single PEM file for certs or key; directory is recommended.

If no TLS directory is provided, the websocket server runs without TLS on the non‑TLS port.

## Logging
Uses `tracing` with a configured subscriber in the server binary.
